README.md, before:

# Todo CLI App

A simple command-line Todo application written in Go. It allows you to add, list, complete, delete, and export tasks. Tasks are saved to a text file so they persist between runs.

## Features

* Add new tasks
* View all existing tasks
* Mark tasks as completed
* Delete tasks by number
* **Export tasks to JSON (`tasks.json`)**
* **Export tasks to Toon format (`tasks.toon`)** *(for LLM-friendly task discussion)*
* Persistent storage using a `tasks.txt` file
* Automatic overdue detection (⚠ overdue tasks are highlighted)
* **Startup reminder dashboard** showing:
  * 🔥 Overdue tasks
  * ⏰ Tasks due today
* Filter tasks (overdue, due today, high priority, pending)
* Sort tasks by due date

## How It Works

The application stores tasks in memory and writes them into `tasks.txt` so they are available the next time you run the program. When the application starts, it loads tasks from the file (if it exists).

Each task now has:

* **Text** — the description of the task
* **Due Date** — optional, format `YYYY-MM-DD`
* **Priority** — optional, e.g., `low`, `medium`, `high`
* **Done status** — whether the task is completed

You can export tasks into different formats:

* **JSON** — a structured machine-readable format
* **Toon** — a lightweight, human- and LLM-friendly text format designed for future AI-based task discussion

> Note: Toon export currently exists as an internal function and is not exposed in the menu yet. It is intended for future integration with an LLM chat interface.

## ⏰ Overdue Detection

Tasks with a due date are automatically checked against the current date.

A task is considered **overdue** if:
- It has a due date
- It is not marked as completed
- The due date is before today

Overdue tasks are displayed in the task list with:

⚠ OVERDUE

Example:

3. [ ] Pay rent (Due: 2025-12-01) [Priority: high] ⚠ OVERDUE

## 📢 Startup Reminder Dashboard

When the application starts, it automatically scans your tasks and displays:

* 🔥 **Overdue tasks**
* ⏰ **Tasks due today**

This ensures you never miss important work — even if you forget to manually open the task list.

Example:

🔥 OVERDUE:
1. [ ] Pay rent (Due: 2025-12-01) [Priority: high] ⚠ OVERDUE

⏰ DUE TODAY:
2. [ ] Submit report (Due: 2025-12-08) [Priority: medium]

This dashboard appears **before the main menu** every time the app launches.

## Usage

1. Run the application using:

   ```bash
   go run main.go
   ```

2. You will see a menu:

   ```
   Todo App
   1. Add Task
   2. List Tasks
   3. Mark Task as Completed
   4. Delete Task
   5. Exit
   6. Export Tasks to JSON
   7. Export Tasks to .toon file
   8. View filtered & sorted tasks
   ```

3. Choose an option:

   * **Add Task**: Type your task and press Enter.
   * **List Tasks**: Shows all tasks with status, due date, priority, and overdue warnings.
   * **Mark as Completed**: Enter the number of the task to mark it done.
   * **Delete Task**: Enter the number of the task you want to delete.
   * **Export Tasks to JSON**: Saves all tasks to `tasks.json`.
   * **Export Tasks to .toon file: Saves tasks to `tasks.toon` with due dates and priorities.
   * **Exit**: Close the application.

## File Structure

```
.
├── main.go        # Application source code
├── tasks.txt      # Automatically generated task storage file
├── tasks.json     # Generated JSON export file
└── tasks.toon     # Generated Toon export file
```

## Example

```
Todo App
1. Add Task
2. List Tasks
3. Mark Task as Completed
4. Delete Task
5. Exit
6. Export Tasks to JSON
7. Export Tasks to .toon file
8. View filtered & sorted tasks
Choose an option: 1
Enter task: Buy groceries
Enter due date (YYYY-MM-DD) or leave empty: 2025-12-20
Enter priority (low,medium,high) or leave empty: high
Task added!

1. [ ] Buy groceries (Due: 2025-12-20) [Priority: high] ⚠ OVERDUE
```

Enjoy your improved Todo CLI app!

Commit message:

Document task storage format in README
Added section on storage format for tasks.

README.md, after:

# Todo CLI App

A simple command-line Todo application written in Go. It allows you to add, list, complete, delete, and export tasks. Tasks are saved to a text file so they persist between runs.

## Features

* Add new tasks
* View all existing tasks
* Mark tasks as completed
* Delete tasks by number
* **Export tasks to JSON (`tasks.json`)**
* **Export tasks to Toon format (`tasks.toon`)** *(for LLM-friendly task discussion)*
* Persistent storage using a `tasks.txt` file
* Automatic overdue detection (⚠ overdue tasks are highlighted)
* **Startup reminder dashboard** showing:
  * 🔥 Overdue tasks
  * ⏰ Tasks due today
* Filter tasks (overdue, due today, high priority, pending)
* Sort tasks by due date

## How It Works

The application stores tasks in memory and writes them into `tasks.txt` so they are available the next time you run the program. When the application starts, it loads tasks from the file (if it exists).

Each task now has:

* **Text** — the description of the task
* **Due Date** — optional, format `YYYY-MM-DD`
* **Priority** — optional, e.g., `low`, `medium`, `high`
* **Done status** — whether the task is completed

You can export tasks into different formats:

* **JSON** — a structured machine-readable format
* **Toon** — a lightweight, human- and LLM-friendly text format designed for future AI-based task discussion

> Note: Toon export currently exists as an internal function and is not exposed in the menu yet. It is intended for future integration with an LLM chat interface.

## Storage Format

Tasks are stored in `tasks.txt` using this format:

ID|Done|Text|DueDate|Priority

Example:
42|1|Pay rent|2025-12-01|high

This makes it easy to:
- Edit tasks manually
- Sync with other tools
- Write import/export scripts

## ⏰ Overdue Detection

Tasks with a due date are automatically checked against the current date.

A task is considered **overdue** if:
- It has a due date
- It is not marked as completed
- The due date is before today

Overdue tasks are displayed in the task list with:

⚠ OVERDUE

Example:

3. [ ] Pay rent (Due: 2025-12-01) [Priority: high] ⚠ OVERDUE

## 📢 Startup Reminder Dashboard

When the application starts, it automatically scans your tasks and displays:

* 🔥 **Overdue tasks**
* ⏰ **Tasks due today**

This ensures you never miss important work — even if you forget to manually open the task list.

Example:

🔥 OVERDUE:
1. [ ] Pay rent (Due: 2025-12-01) [Priority: high] ⚠ OVERDUE

⏰ DUE TODAY:
2. [ ] Submit report (Due: 2025-12-08) [Priority: medium]

This dashboard appears **before the main menu** every time the app launches.

## Usage

1. Run the application using:

   ```bash
   go run main.go
   ```

2. You will see a menu:

   ```
   Todo App
   1. Add Task
   2. List Tasks
   3. Mark Task as Completed
   4. Delete Task
   5. Exit
   6. Export Tasks to JSON
   7. Export Tasks to .toon file
   8. View filtered & sorted tasks
   ```

3. Choose an option:

   * **Add Task**: Type your task and press Enter.
   * **List Tasks**: Shows all tasks with status, due date, priority, and overdue warnings.
   * **Mark as Completed**: Enter the number of the task to mark it done.
   * **Delete Task**: Enter the number of the task you want to delete.
   * **Export Tasks to JSON**: Saves all tasks to `tasks.json`.
   * **Export Tasks to .toon file: Saves tasks to `tasks.toon` with due dates and priorities.
   * **Exit**: Close the application.

## File Structure

```
.
├── main.go        # Application source code
├── tasks.txt      # Automatically generated task storage file
├── tasks.json     # Generated JSON export file
└── tasks.toon     # Generated Toon export file
```

## Example

```
Todo App
1. Add Task
2. List Tasks
3. Mark Task as Completed
4. Delete Task
5. Exit
6. Export Tasks to JSON
7. Export Tasks to .toon file
8. View filtered & sorted tasks
Choose an option: 1
Enter task: Buy groceries
Enter due date (YYYY-MM-DD) or leave empty: 2025-12-20
Enter priority (low,medium,high) or leave empty: high
Task added!

1. [ ] Buy groceries (Due: 2025-12-20) [Priority: high] ⚠ OVERDUE
```

Enjoy your improved Todo CLI app!
